---
layout: post
title:  "Terms of Service"
author: zack
categories: [ ]
image: false
caption: false
description: "Terms of service for the site"
featured: false
hidden: true
affiliate: false
---

Please read these terms carefully before using Our Service.

# Interpretation and Definitions

## Interpretation
The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural.

## Definitions
For the purposes of these Terms of Service:

- **Account** means a unique account created for You to access our Service or parts of our Service.

- **Affiliate** means an entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with a party, where "control" means ownership of 50% or more of the shares, equity interest or other securities entitled to vote for election of directors or other managing authority.

- **Content** refers to content such as text, images, activity files, or other information that can be posted, uploaded, linked to or otherwise made available by You, regardless of the form of that content.

- **Country** refers to: California, United States

- **Company** (referred to as either "the Company", "We", "Us" or "Our" in this Agreement) refers to Zack A. Goodman.

- **Device** means any device that can access the Service such as a computer, a cellphone or a digital tablet.

- **Feedback** means feedback, innovations or suggestions sent by You regarding the attributes, performance or features of our Service.

- **Service** refers to the Website.

- **Terms of Service** (also referred as "Terms") mean these terms and conditions that form the entire agreement between You and the Company regarding the use of the Service. This Terms of Service agreement has been created with the help of the Terms and Conditions Generator.

- **Third-party Social Media Service** means any services or content (including data, information, products or services) provided by a third-party that may be displayed, included or made available by the Service.

- **Website** refers to zagoodman.com, accessible from https://zagoodman.com.

You means the individual accessing or using the Service, or the company, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable.

# Copyrights and Trademarks
Unless otherwise noted, all materials including without limitation, logos, brand names, designs, video clips and written and other materials that appear as a part of our Website are intellectual property whether registered or unregistered ("Intellectual Property") owned, controlled or licensed by the Company.

Nothing on our Website should be construed as granting, by implication, estoppel or otherwise, any license or right to use any Intellectual Property displayed or used on our Website, without the prior written permission of the Intellectual Property owner.

The names and logos of Company, may not be used in any way, including in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of materials on our Website, without prior, written permission from Company. Company prohibits use of any logo of Company or any of its affiliates as part of a link to or from any Website unless Company approves such link in advance and in writing.

Fair use of Company’s Intellectual Property requires proper acknowledgment. Other product and company names mentioned in our Website may be the Intellectual Property of their respective owners.

# Acknowledgment
These are the Terms of Service governing the use of this Service and the agreement that operates between You and the Company. These Terms of Service set out the rights and obligations of all users regarding the use of the Service.

Your access to and use of the Service is conditioned on Your acceptance of and compliance with these Terms of Service. These Terms of Service apply to all visitors, users and others who access or use the Service.

By accessing or using the Service You agree to be bound by these Terms of Service. If You disagree with any part of these Terms of Service then You may not access the Service.

You represent that You are over the age of 18. The Company does not permit those under 18 to use the Service.

Your access to and use of the Service is also conditioned on Your acceptance of and compliance with the Privacy Policy of the Company. Our Privacy Policy describes Our policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of Your personal information when You use the Application or the Website and tells You about Your privacy rights and how the law protects You. Please read Our Privacy Policy carefully before using Our Service.

# Content

## Your Right to Post Content
Our Service allows You to post Content. You are responsible for the Content that You post to the Service, including its legality, reliability, and appropriateness.

By posting Content to the Service, You grant Us the right and license to use, modify, publicly perform, publicly display, reproduce, and distribute such Content on and through the Service. You retain any and all of Your rights to any Content You submit, post or display on or through the Service and You are responsible for protecting those rights. You agree that this license includes the right for Us to make Your Content available to other users of the Service, who may also use Your Content subject to these Terms.

You represent and warrant that: (i) the Content is Yours (You own it) or You have the right to use it and grant Us the rights and license as provided in these Terms, and (ii) the posting of Your Content on or through the Service does not violate the privacy rights, publicity rights, copyrights, contract rights or any other rights of any person.

## Content Restrictions
The Company is not responsible for the content of the Service’s users. You expressly understand and agree that You are solely responsible for the Content and for all activity that occurs under your account, whether done so by You or any third person using Your account.

You may not transmit any Content that is unlawful, offensive, upsetting, intended to disgust, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene or otherwise objectionable. Examples of such objectionable Content include, but are not limited to, the following:

- Unlawful or promoting unlawful activity.
- Defamatory, discriminatory, or mean-spirited content, including references or commentary about religion, race, sexual orientation, gender, national/ethnic origin, or other targeted groups.
- Spam, machine – or randomly – generated, constituting unauthorized or unsolicited advertising, chain letters, any other form of unauthorized solicitation, or any form of lottery or gambling.
- Containing or installing any viruses, worms, malware, trojan horses, or other content that is designed or intended to disrupt, damage, or limit the functioning of any software, hardware or telecommunications equipment or to damage or obtain unauthorized access to any data or other information of a third person.
- Infringing on any proprietary rights of any party, including patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, right of publicity or other rights.
Impersonating any person or entity including the Company and its employees or representatives or other users of the Service.
- Violating the privacy of any third person.
- False information and features.

The Company reserves the right, but not the obligation, to, in its sole discretion, determine whether or not any Content is appropriate and complies with this Terms, refuse or remove this Content. The Company further reserves the right to make formatting and edits and change the manner any Content. The Company can also limit or revoke the use of the Service if You post such objectionable Content.

As the Company cannot control all content posted by users and/or third parties on the Service, you agree to use the Service at your own risk. You understand that by using the Service You may be exposed to content that You may find offensive, indecent, incorrect or objectionable, and You agree that under no circumstances will the Company be liable in any way for any content, including any errors or omissions in any content, or any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of your use of any content.

## Content Backups
Although regular backups of Content are performed, the Company do not guarantee there will be no loss or corruption of data.

Corrupt or invalid backup points may be caused by, without limitation, Content that is corrupted prior to being backed up or that changes during the time a backup is performed.

The Company will provide support and attempt to troubleshoot any known or discovered issues that may affect the backups of Content. But You acknowledge that the Company has no liability related to the integrity of Content or the failure to successfully restore Content to a usable state.

You agree to maintain a complete and accurate copy of any Content in a location independent of the Service.

# Your Feedback to Us
You assign all rights, title and interest in any Feedback You provide the Company. If for any reason such assignment is ineffective, You agree to grant the Company a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide right and license to use, reproduce, disclose, sub-license, distribute, modify and exploit such Feedback without restriction.

# Links to Other Websites
Our Service may contain links to third-party web sites or services that are not owned or controlled by the Company.

The Company has no control over, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, privacy policies, or practices of any third party web sites or services. You further acknowledge and agree that the Company shall not be responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any such content, goods or services available on or through any such web sites or services.

We strongly advise You to read the terms and conditions and privacy policies of any third-party web sites or services that You visit.

## Amazon Services LLC Associates Program Disclosure
The Company is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.

# Termination
We may terminate or suspend Your access immediately, without prior notice or liability, for any reason whatsoever, including without limitation if You breach these Terms of Service.

Upon termination, Your right to use the Service will cease immediately.

# Limitation of Liability
Notwithstanding any damages that You might incur, the entire liability of the Company and any of its suppliers under any provision of this Terms and Your exclusive remedy for all of the foregoing shall be limited to the amount actually paid by You through the Service or 100 USD if You haven't purchased anything through the Service.

To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall the Company or its suppliers be liable for any special, incidental, indirect, or consequential damages whatsoever (including, but not limited to, damages for loss of profits, loss of data or other information, for business interruption, for personal injury, loss of privacy arising out of or in any way related to the use of or inability to use the Service, third-party software and/or third-party hardware used with the Service, or otherwise in connection with any provision of this Terms), even if the Company or any supplier has been advised of the possibility of such damages and even if the remedy fails of its essential purpose.

Some states do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties or limitation of liability for incidental or consequential damages, which means that some of the above limitations may not apply. In these states, each party's liability will be limited to the greatest extent permitted by law.

# "AS IS" and "AS AVAILABLE" Disclaimer
The Service is provided to You "AS IS" and "AS AVAILABLE" and with all faults and defects without warranty of any kind. To the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, the Company, on its own behalf and on behalf of its Affiliates and its and their respective licensors and service providers, expressly disclaims all warranties, whether express, implied, statutory or otherwise, with respect to the Service, including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-infringement, and warranties that may arise out of course of dealing, course of performance, usage or trade practice. Without limitation to the foregoing, the Company provides no warranty or undertaking, and makes no representation of any kind that the Service will meet Your requirements, achieve any intended results, be compatible or work with any other software, applications, systems or services, operate without interruption, meet any performance or reliability standards or be error free or that any errors or defects can or will be corrected.

Without limiting the foregoing, neither the Company nor any of the company's provider makes any representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied: (i) as to the operation or availability of the Service, or the information, content, and materials or products included thereon; (ii) that the Service will be uninterrupted or error-free; (iii) as to the accuracy, reliability, or currency of any information or content provided through the Service; or (iv) that the Service, its servers, the content, or e-mails sent from or on behalf of the Company are free of viruses, scripts, trojan horses, worms, malware, timebombs or other harmful components.

Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of certain types of warranties or limitations on applicable statutory rights of a consumer, so some or all of the above exclusions and limitations may not apply to You. But in such a case the exclusions and limitations set forth in this section shall be applied to the greatest extent enforceable under applicable law.

# Governing Law
The laws of the Country, excluding its conflicts of law rules, shall govern this Terms and Your use of the Service. Your use of the Application may also be subject to other local, state, national, or international laws.

# Disputes Resolution
If You have any concern or dispute about the Service, You agree to first try to resolve the dispute informally by contacting the Company.

# For European Union (EU) Users
If You are a European Union consumer, you will benefit from any mandatory provisions of the law of the country in which you are resident in.

# United States Legal Compliance
You represent and warrant that (i) You are not located in a country that is subject to the United States government embargo, or that has been designated by the United States government as a "terrorist supporting" country, and (ii) You are not listed on any United States government list of prohibited or restricted parties.

# Severability and Waiver
## Severability
If any provision of these Terms is held to be unenforceable or invalid, such provision will be changed and interpreted to accomplish the objectives of such provision to the greatest extent possible under applicable law and the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect.

## Waiver
Except as provided herein, the failure to exercise a right or to require performance of an obligation under this Terms shall not effect a party's ability to exercise such right or require such performance at any time thereafter nor shall be the waiver of a breach constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach.

# Translation Interpretation
These Terms of Service may have been translated if We have made them available to You on our Service. You agree that the original English text shall prevail in the case of a dispute.

# Changes to These Terms of Service
We reserve the right, at Our sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms at any time. If a revision is material We will make reasonable efforts to provide at least 30 days' notice prior to any new terms taking effect. What constitutes a material change will be determined at Our sole discretion.

By continuing to access or use Our Service after those revisions become effective, You agree to be bound by the revised terms. If You do not agree to the new terms, in whole or in part, please stop using the website and the Service.

# Contact Us
If you have any questions about these Terms of Service, You can contact us:

- By email: zgoodman@ucsd.edu
